---
toc: true
layout: post
categories: [leadership,reading_notes]
title: The First 90 days, Updated and Expanded - Proven strategies for getting up to speed faster and smarter - 15
---
> “The same five-conversation framework can help you build productive relationships with the people who report to you. Introduce the framework to them right away, and schedule a first conversation with each of them to talk about the situation and about your expectations.” “Helping direct reports accelerate their transitions is about more than being a good manager and contributing to others’ development. The faster your direct reports get up to speed, the better able they will be to help you reach your goals.”

不仅要和老板有STARS conversation，和团推成员也要有类似的交流，来相互校准整个团队整体的STARS portfolio。

> “Plan Your Waves
In planning for your transition (and beyond), focus on making successive waves of change. Each wave should consist of distinct phases: learning, designing the changes, building support, implementing the changes, and observing results.”

> “If you keep changing things, it is impossible to figure out what is working and what is not. Unending change is also a surefire recipe for burning out your people.
The goal of the first wave of change is to secure early wins. The new leader tailors early initiatives to build personal credibility, establish key relationships, and identify and harvest low-hanging fruit—the highest-potential opportunities for short-term improvements in organizational performance. Done well, this strategy helps the new leader build momentum and deepen his own learning.
The second wave of change typically addresses more fundamental issues of strategy, structure, systems, and skills to reshape the organization; deeper gains in organizational performance are achieved. But you will not get there if you don’t secure early wins in the first wave.”

不要想着一步到位，即使你知道问题的根源在很深处，也要一步步解决，第一波要找准early wins，能够拿出成绩，建立momentum，第一步再是解决更加深入和根本的问题。一口吃不成胖子。

